---
layout: post
title: PureTech
date: 2017-08-03
tag: PureTech, robotic, non destructive testing
comments: true
---

## SoundPrint Acoustic monitoring system

- Target Market: Structures rely on prestressing wires to achieve their Strength

- Base Knowledge: wire corrosion and fails release their stored energy (*Think of a tensioned spring suddenly broke*). And some of the released energy is converted into sound energy.

- How to detect the sound wave:
    + Piezoelectric accelerometers detects the surface wave vibration in the structure
    + Use a grid of sensors across the structure can monitor large areas efficiently
    + Use arrival times to locate the sound origin (*Locate the failure point*)

- How to capture data:
    + analog sensor signal -> amplified -> convert to digital bit file -> recorded
    + The data acquisition system (DAQ) can handle thousands of multiplexed sensors
        * Need on-site filter to minimize the data and the noise.
        * Data is transmitted via Internet to Processing Server
- Processing Recorded Data:
    + Need human force, a.k.a *Data Analyst* review events for wire failures.
        * frequency spectrum, energy, propagation velocity, and attenuation
        * Locations are determined by relative arrival time of signal at each sensor (Calculated based on the Time Analyze, look at the first several envelopes), please see <a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Envelope_detector>Envelope Detector</a> for further references.
- Classification of wire event and report to client

#### Future Improvement?
DATA ANALYST AUTOMATION


## Pure EM
PureEM is a **non-destructive testing technique** for detection and quantification of broken prestressing wires within a section of Prestressed Concrete Cylinder Pipe (PCCP).

*1997 – Professor David Atherton (Queen’s University) patented the technology as a Remote Field Eddy Current/Transformer Coupling (RFEC/TC) inspection technique for Concrete Cylinder Pressure Pipes*

PCCP is made by Concrete coating (inner and outer), **Steel Cylinder** and **Prestressing Wires**.

- Background: if a magnetic field inside a coil of wire (like the prestressing wires in PCCP) is induced, one can generate an electric current through that wire. Subsequently, that current generates its own magnetic field.
    + The prestressing windings greatly amplify the detected signal (transformer coupling). 
    + if sections of the coil are broken, the current will stop flowing, causing a disruption in the magnetic field.

- Platforms: 
    + Manned cart: Large Pipe, Safe and full dewatered environment
    + Robotic tools: Smaller Pipe, limited to length of tether


#### Future Improvement?
DATA ANALYST AUTOMATION